Include a guide for setting up Python (#13)
compgeolab/manual: computing.md

to get going.

### Linux

You should already have a terminal with bash (look for the "terminal" app).
Git is often already installed as well or you can install it with
your distributions package manager.

On Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

## Python

> **DO NOT** download Python from https://www.python.org!

The best way to get setup with Python for your project is 
by getting a Python distribution that has the `conda` or `mamba`
package managers. Anaconda itself (which you likely have from
one of Leo's classes) is good for some cases but for your 
project work it will likely cause more harm than good because
it comes with too many libraries that we won't need (and is thus 
a huge pain to update).

The recommended distribution to install for Windows, Linux, and Mac 
is [Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge).
This is a minimalist version of Anaconda made by the 
[conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/) team. It comes only with Python
and `mamba` (which we use to install other libraries).

Follow the instructions below to download and setup Mambaforge.

### Windows

> Download the [latest Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Mambaforge-Windows-x86_64.exe) 
> and run the installer. 

Author: ```suggestion
Download the [latest Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Mambaforge-Windows-x86_64.exe).

Run the installer and make sure it saves the installation in your home folder (**it may not be the default**).
For example,  `C:/Users/YOUR_USERNAME/mambaforge`. 
```

Author: How about this?

Reviewer: Perfect! I know I'm being a bit pedantic, but I just thought it might prevent a potential problem.

Author: Not at all! I think you'll find that me and @santisoler are the really pedantic ones 🙂

> 

Reviewer: Add a reminder to make sure it is saved in the home folder (mine was going to save in another folder).
e.g. MWS(C:)/Users/**your_username**/mambaforge

Author: Do you mean during download or during install?

Reviewer: During the install. The stage where it asks where you would like to save the folder. (Some people just click next without checking where it actually saves.)

Author: Thanks, India! See comment above.

This should create a `mambaforge` folder in your home directory
(open Git Bash and run `cd` to get to your home).

Now we need to make Git Bash aware of Mambaforge so that
you have access to the `mamba` package manager.

> Run the commands below on Git Bash.

> Run this command to append the initialization code your

Reviewer: Rune this command to append the initialisation code in your

`.bashrc` file:

```bash
cat >> .bashrc <<EOF 
# Mambaforge initialization code

> source ~/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh

Author: ```suggestion
source "$HOME/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh"
```

Author: Maybe changing it to this will work. 

@indiauppal did the installer put things in a `mambaforge` folder in your home?

Reviewer: That didn't work either. The path to conda.sh is correct.

Author: Wait, can you check if the code is actually appended to the `.bashrc` file? Do you get any errors when you open Git Bash?

Reviewer 2: Stepping in into this thread: maybe it's wiser to use `./conda.sh init bash` to automatically set up bash to source `conda.sh`.

https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#conda-init

BTW, `conda init` works with other shells, e.g. `conda init zsh`, which might be helpful for Mac users (I think they are shipping zsh by default nowdays).

Reviewer: I've tried running python and mamba today and its worked. I don't know why its working now and not the other day. Also, every time I open git bash the following code:
 ```
#Mambaforge initialization code
source ~/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
conda activate
```
keeps being added to the end of my .bashrc file. Is this suppose to happen?

Reviewer: source ~/AppData/Local/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh

conda activate
EOF
```

> After that, close Git Bash and open it again. 

Reviewer: After opening Git Bash again, I had the following message:
```
bash: /c/Users/sgiuppal/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/cond.sh: No such file or directory
bash: conda: command not found
```

To test that your setup worked, run `python` and 
check if the output looks something like the following:

> 

Reviewer: python did not work. The Microsoft store opened to download python.

Author: That means that the setup code above is not right. 😢

```
Python 3.9.0 | packaged by conda-forge | (default, Nov 26 2020, 07:57:39) 
[GCC 9.3.0] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> 
```

Also try running `mamba` and check that the output is something like:

> 

Reviewer: mamba did not work either. I got the following error:
```
$ mamba
bash: mamba: command not found
```

Git is often already installed as well or you can install it with
your distributions package manager.

On Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

## Python

> **DO NOT** download Python from https://www.python.org!

The best way to get setup with Python for your project is 
by getting a Python distribution that has the `conda` or `mamba`
package managers. Anaconda itself (which you likely have from
one of Leo's classes) is good for some cases but for your 
project work it will likely cause more harm than good because
it comes with too many libraries that we won't need (and is thus 
a huge pain to update).

The recommended distribution to install for Windows, Linux, and Mac 
is [Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge).
This is a minimalist version of Anaconda made by the 
[conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/) team. It comes only with Python
and `mamba` (which we use to install other libraries).

Follow the instructions below to download and setup Mambaforge.

### Windows

Download the [latest Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Mambaforge-Windows-x86_64.exe).

> Run the installer and make sure it saves the installation in your home folder (**it may not be the default**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the installer and the default should save the installation in a sub folder `(AppData/Local/)` within your home folder.
```

> For example,  `C:/Users/YOUR_USERNAME/mambaforge`. 

Reviewer: Change to save on default: C:/Users/YOUR_USERNAME//AppData/Local/mambaforge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example,  `C:/Users/YOUR_USERNAME/AppData/Local/mambaforge`. 
```

This should create a `mambaforge` folder in your home directory
(open Git Bash and run `cd` to get to your home).

Now we need to make Git Bash aware of Mambaforge so that
you have access to the `mamba` package manager.

> Run the commands below on Git Bash.

> Run this command to append the initialization code in your
> `.bashrc` file:
> 
> ```bash
> cat >> .bashrc <<EOF 
> # Mambaforge initialization code
> source ~/AppData/Local/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
> conda activate
> EOF

Author: ```suggestion
Add the following initialization code to a file called `.bashrc` in your home folder:

```bash
# Mambaforge initialization code
source ~/AppData/Local/mambaforge/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
conda activate
```
